# Times-Series-Analysis-of-Monthly-New-York-State-Alcoholic-Beverage-Tax
Alcohol-related problems have a series of impact to a country’s public health. 88,000 deaths each year in the USA are directly attributable to alcohol consumption. Additionally, some studies show that deaths related to alcohol are up 35 to 50 since 2000. Since alcohol consumption is a contributing factor for the transport accidents, violent crime suicide and a number of other causes of injury and death, alcoholic beverages have been taxed at a relatively high rate. We attempt to figure out the monthly New York State alcoholic beverage tax by time series analyses. There are two main goals of our project: (1) Identify trend and seasonal patterns of our response, the monthly New York State alcoholic beverage tax. (2) Analyze relationships between predictors (monthly cigarette tax, personal income tax and unemployment rate) and the response (monthly alcoholic beverage tax), and make prediction on the monthly alcoholic beverage tax based on the gathered information.

We begin project by analysis of alcoholic and beverage tax. Apply decomposition, kernel smoother and simple linear regression to extract trend and seasonal patterns. Discovering the alcoholic and beverage tax associated with the alcoholic and beverage tax at time t-6 and time t-12 from lagged scatterplot matrix, we fit a regression model with lagged variables and get desirable results. We also apply Holt-Winters model, SARIMA model to predict future alcoholic beverage tax and compare these models. 
